## About this Repo

Greetings Interns. This repo is for our very impressive software that performs a Gray-Scott Simulation.

## Getting Started

This tutorial assumes a basic understanding of git, GitHub and command line usage. If you do not have git installed please follow <a href="https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git">this tutorial</a>.

A C++ compiler (minimum C++11) is also required to compile and run this code. Installation is platform- and software-environment-dependent so please research how to install a compiler with your particular setup (you may already have one installed).

Finally, Make and optionally CMake are required to build the system. CMake is recommended. More info can be found <a href="https://cmake.org/download/">here</a>.

### Installation

1. Clone the repo
   ```sh
   git clone https://github.com/mananisak/Data-Divers-gray-scott-sim.git
   ```
2. Move into the repo folder
   ```sh
   cd Data-Divers-gray-scott-sim
   ```

### Option 1: Using CMake to build the system for the software
This is a more robust build system that requires CMake.
1. Create and enter the build directory
   ```sh
   mkdir build
   cd build
   ```
2. Run CMake under the root path for configuration
   ```sh
   cmake ..
   ```
3. Compile project
   ```sh
   cmake --build .
   ```
4. Run the main program. Outputted .vtk files are stored in the /build/bin folder
   ```sh
   cmake --build . --target run
   ```
5. Run unit tests
   ```sh
   cmake --build . --target test
   ```
#### CMake cleanup options
1. Clean up all files generated by the build (complete cleanup)
   ```sh
   cmake --build . --target full-clean
   ```
2. Only clean executable files and target files
   ```sh
   cmake --build . --target clean-bin
   ```
3. Only clean up temporary CMake configuration files
   ```sh
   cmake --build . --target clean-cmake
   ```
4. Only clean up VTK output files
   ```sh
   cmake --build . --target clean-vtk
   ```

### Option 2: Using Make to build the system for the software
This is a less robust build system however Make may be easier to install and use.
* Running the build system to compile the necessary files
   ```sh
   make
   ```
* Running the simulation
   ```sh
   make run
   ```
This will run the simulation with the default variables (Diffusion Rate of U (Du) = 0.14, Diffusion Rate of V (Dv) = 0.07, Feed Rate (F) = 0.03, Kill Rate (k) = 0.0648 and threshold = 0.1)

* ADVANCED: Running the simulation with user-inputted parameters. Replace \<Du\> \<Dv\> \<F\> \<k\> \<threshold\> with the input for each variable.
   ```sh
   ./sim.out <Du> <Dv> <F> <k> <threshold>
   ```
* Running the simulation will output many vtk files into the current directory. To clear these use:
   ```sh
   make cleanvtk
   ```
* To clear all vtk files and output files:
   ```sh
   make clean
   ```
* To compile and run a test-version of the simulation:
   ```sh
   make test
   ```

## CI workflow system

The workflow.yml file is scripted based on the unit testing with Google Test compiled with CMake, it will be triggered by any code pushed to any branch, or when a pull request is updated. The whole workflow includes: check out code, dependencies installation, setup google test configuration and build and run tests and upload results.
